Germany's chancellor Olaf Schultz has
urged Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas
to clearly condemn the Hamas attacks on
Israel calling his silence so far
shameful in a speech to the German
Parliament Schultz also pledged his
support for Israel saying Germany's only
place right now is at Israel's side he
said Israel must have the capacity to
defend itself adding that the terrorist
group Hamas offers only poverty and
misery for the Palestinian people in
Gaza
Schultz also said that Germany will
issue a formal banon activity by or in
support of
Hamas we condemn the violence of the
terrorists and we say very clearly
Israel has the right under international
law to defend its citizens against such
acts of
barbarism at the moment there is only
one place for Germany the place side by
side with Israel this is what we mean
when we say the security of Israel is
Germany's
rra and I'm now joined by our chief
political editor Michelle kufner who is
at the German Parliament uh today
michella overall I mean that we just
listened to one aspect uh or one
soundbite there from from the chancell
but overall that was a very strongly
worded speech from the German Chancellor
some very strong rhetoric coming out of
him today here in
Berlin yes and it was um Olaf Schultz
spelling out what Germany means when it
says it will guarantee for Israel's
security this goes back to something
former chanc Angela mle said before the
Israeli Parliament the knesset in 2008
when she said that Israel's security was
reason of State in Germany now in this
hour of need Olaf Schultz made clear
that that means um backing Israel is
with whatever it needs he said he spoke
to bamin Netanyahu and um pledged that
he would send whatever Israel requests
we've learned from the German defense
minister that that means ammunition for
warships at this moment in time but also
he announced a flurry of diplomatic
activity high level talks he's due to
hold today beginning with the emia of
Qatar who is and who was scheduled to
come to Berlin even before this attack
took place with Qatar being seen as a
major financier of ham
but also a clamp down on pro- Hamas
demonstrations here in
Germany yeah michellea there was also uh
a word there directed at the Palestinian
authorities let's have a listen to that
stand by and we'll pick up after this
next sound bite from the German
Chancellor ladies and gentlemen ham the
attack of Hamas
on Israel also has repercussions in our
cooperation with the
Palestine where is the clear
condemnation of terrorist Violence by
the president Mahmud abas and the
Palestinian
Authority I say your silence is a
disgrace and all our development
cooperation with uh Palestinians
will be
reexamined and we will see how our
projects can support peace in the region
and support the security of
Israel so Michela we're hearing there
from the German Chancellor that Aid to
the Palestinians is now under review
tell us
more yes this is something that Germany
said very early on that it will review
any assistance given to Palestinians we
also saw him um discussed this with
French president Emmanuel marcco earlier
in the week when they had a bilateral
cabinet meeting in the German city of
Hamburg but both also said that that
would not mean ending all humanitarian
assistance there is a huge distinction
between development assistance and
humanitarian assistance uh with uh both
sides both saying they are aligned with
Israel stand side by side with Israel
and Israel will have the final say on
which Aid goes in and which doesn't it
does so in concrete terms anyway because
it controls access to the Gaza Strip on
the ground but this is something that is
also being debated across Europe what
that means in terms of humanitarian
assistance but also other assistance
towards any Palestinian cause now that
the terrorist Wing Hamas launched this
vicious attack this inhumane attack on
Israel michella the we also heard uh the
German Chancellor talk about mediation
efforts
uh today he he referenced countries
Egypt turkey and Qatar let's have a
listen to what he had to say on that
quickly I have very close contacts with
Mr alissi the Egyptian head of state and
he also has channels of communication
with Gaza I'm going to talk to the
Turkish president Mr erdogan I am also
going to see representatives of Qatar uh
they are very important as mediators and
they use this capacity all three of us
can play an important role in De
escalating the
situation and the critics of such
contacts and those who say we shouldn't
be speaking to the actors let me just
tell them it would be absolutely
irresponsible in that situation not to
use all the channels that we can
use we do that very close coordination
with
Israel and we do it for those people who
were abducted by
Hamas and on the note of those people
who were abducted by Hamas the German
Chancellor is due to meet uh with the
Amir of Qatar to negotiate the release
of hostages in Gaza Michelle you're
still with us what more do we know about
uh these mediation efforts in that
regard well these were scheduled as
talks which surely were about investment
and energy and have now become
diplomatically absolutely key um in
terms of what Olaf Schultz said there
you can also sense the overarching fear
that this could become a much bigger
conflict he also warned Hezbollah not to
get involved and the biggest concern is
of course that Iran is involved in this
and that there could be a full-scale
escalation of this uh involving Iran
that's when it gets very dangerous not
just for the region but for the entire
world so diplomatic activities at all
levels the Americans the Germans the
Europeans
everyone michella Israel has requested
military help as well uh do we know if
Germany is going to be sending
weapons well we've uh heard from the
German defense minister arriving at a
NATO meeting uh where he said that
ammunition would be supplied to the
Israelis for Israeli warships there's
also reports that those drones that
Germany has um leased from from Israel
that some of those would be basically
left with Israel for their own defense
purposes and we have the pledge from the
German Chancellor today that whatever
Benyamin Netanyahu requests would also
be delivered H so um that is not much of
an expectation here in terms of Defense
capabilities I've spoken to high level
politicians from other parties um who do
not expect there to be a very long list
uh but Germany mapping it out very
clearly that solidarity as the Chan to
put it won't end with words all right
that is DW's Chief political editor
Michelle kufner here in Berlin uh of
course breaking down for us that speech
uh by the German Chancellor in the
bundestag today as ever Michelle
appreciate that thank
you